docs: hive gateway documentation and reorganize documentation (#5291)
kamilkisiela/graphql-hive: packages/web/docs/src/pages/docs/gateway/features/monitoring-tracing/index.mdx

---

import { Callout } from '@theguild/components'

# Monitoring and Tracing

If something is not working as it should within your GraphQL gateway, you would not want it to go
unnoticed.

You can use Gateway plugins to trace and monitor your gateway's execution flow together with all
outgoing HTTP calls and internal query planning.

> Gateway plugins are mostly the extended versions of
> [the existing Envelop plugins.](https://www.envelop.dev/docs/guides/monitoring-and-tracing)

## Available Plugins

- **StatsD**: collect and send metrics to Datadog's DogStatsD and InfluxDB's Telegraf StatsD
  services. [Read more](/docs/gateway/features/monitoring-tracing/statsd)
- **Prometheus**: Prometheus is a platform for scraping metrics from services and utilities. .
  [Read more](/docs/gateway/features/monitoring-tracing/prometheus)
- **OpenTelemetry**: OpenTelemetry is a possible alternative for Sentry that allows tracking errors
  as exceptions [Read more](/docs/gateway/features/monitoring-tracing/open-telemetry)
- **Sentry**: Sentry is the biggest player regarding error tracking within JavaScript land.
  [Read more](/docs/gateway/features/monitoring-tracing/sentry)

> - **Health Checks**: monitor the health of your gateway. [Read more](/docs/plugins/health-checks)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Health Checks**: monitor the health of your gateway. [Read more](/docs/gateway/features/monitoring-tracing/health-check)
```
